# Deploy NGINX Server Container to Azure using Azure Portal

>In this task, we will deploy a container instance to Azure Container Instances using the Azure Portal. Azure Container Instances allows us to run serverless and isolated Docker containers in Azure and make its application available with a fully qualified domain name (FQDN). 

>We will use the NGINX server image from DockerHub: https://hub.docker.com/r/nginxdemos/hello.

>Open Azure Portal (https://portal.azure.com) and click on [Create a resource] Next, choose [Containers] -> [Container Instances]

> On the "Basic" tab of the "Create container instance" page you should fill in the fields as follows

 - Use your "Azure for Students" subscription 
 - Create a new resource group with a suitable name 
 - Create a name for your container 
 - Choose a region near you 
 - Leave the "Availability zones" to [None]
 - For the image source, choose [Other registry] (to use an image from DockerHub, which is the default registry for this option) and fill in the image name 
 - Leave the "OS type" to [Linux] and "Size" field with the given options 

> Click on [Next] to go to the "Networking" tab. There you should fill in a DNS name for your container and choose [Tenant] for DNS scope reuse

> The name must be unique within the Azure region where you create the container instance. Your container will be publicly reachable at <dns-name-label>.<region>.azurecontainer.io. An auto-generated hash is added as a DNS name label to your container instance's fully qualified domain name (FQDN).

> If you receive a "DNS name label not available" error message, try a different DNS name label. 

> Leave all other settings as their defaults and select [Review + create], then [Create]. Wait for the deployment to complete

> Then go to nginx-server container instance from the "Container instances" page

> Look at the FQDN and the status of the container on the "Overview" page

> When the status is "Running", navigate to the container's FQDN in your browser and you should see your NGINX server

> NOTE: if you receive an error, wait for the container a little bit more. After up to 5 minutes, it should be loading successfully.

> If you have any other problems, you can look at the container logs in [Containers] -> [Logs]

> You can delete the container by deleting its resource group in the familiar to you way. You can also delete only the container by going to [Overview] and clicking on [Delete]